---
layout: post
title:  "Friday Facts #58: Learning"
date:   2020-12-04 00:00:00 -0700
author: supersoup
#categories: new-city friday-facts

image: /assets/images/58/58_haverton.png
description: It's a journey, not a destination.

---

{% include image.html class="caption-bottom"
  url="/assets/images/58/58_winners_lose.png"
  description="Naming your team The Winners unfortunately doesn't guarantee a win..."
%}

supersoup:

It’s been almost six months since we launched NewCity into Early Access. 

In that time, we’ve expanded modding and Steam Workshop support, filled out the Building Designer with delicious functionality, seeded signs of life on your cities’ waterfronts, and squashed more bugs than we could reasonably enumerate.

It feels like so much time has passed, and yet the road before us is still fresh and young. 

Around the turn of the year I plan to roll out my expanded Tutorial system. Long in coming, this will add a layer of interactivity to the early stages of the game, helpfully guiding new players on how to break ground for their very own NewCity and make the most of being a Mayor. 

And of course, we have many more milestones on the roadmap ahead. I’ll let Lone Pine dig into those though. Rest assured, there’s plenty to be excited about as we enter the second half of NewCity’s first year! 

Thank you for playing, for your feedback, and for your words of encouragement. It means so much to all of us on the team to see the community that’s formed around our little citybuilder, and we can’t wait to show you what’s just around the bend. 

---

{% include image.html class="caption-bottom"
  url="/assets/images/58/58_haverton.png"
%}

Gainos:

Learning digital art is a funny thing. Let’s start by learning some basic art skills, the kind of thing that you would learn the same way long before the computer. After that, let’s get into software and all the technicalities related to a digital workflow. While generally you don’t need to break down your learning into a traditional and a digital workflow, as an artist you need to have a sense of what you’re doing even without a computer in front of you.

The way artists create their work has changed so much in the last few decades. Only in the last few years we’ve seen workflows that were very work intensive getting reduced to a few key presses. Things that artists usually did all by hand now have the help of computer algorithms and procedural generation of textures and meshes to help them. The work has changed, but the art remains a very human topic.

{% include image.html class="caption-bottom"
  url="/assets/images/58/58_pavement.png"
%}

The work I do right now, even more so in a country such as Brazil, is something pretty new and as such, there are things people like me are still trying to figure out. Personally, as a 3d artist, I'm not amazing at painting or drawing (although I’m working on that!). I haven’t studied the best painters and sculptors that started trends hundreds of years ago (although I probably should). I didn’t go to a fancy university (although I did try at first). And most of all, I don’t know exactly what my work is gonna look like when it’s finished. But I know that the tools I have at my disposal make this process easier and really give me the freedom to create what I want.

Art, without a doubt, will keep changing and from a few years from now, we’ll have tools that will make the work we do now feel a bit inadequate. But art, as long as civilization exists, will always be something personal and human. Technology can change art but then again, humans are the ones that change technology.

---

{% include image.html class="caption-bottom"
  url="/assets/images/58/58_winners_win.png"
  description="...but keep trying anyway."
%}

Questions? Comments? Feedback on the game? Sound off on our [Discord]{:target="_blank"}.

As always, we're incredibly thankful for our great community across the web. We love seeing the hard work and attention to detail you pour into your cities, and it inspires us every day to keep building. Thank you again for your support.

If you want to play the game and haven't got it yet, head over to our [Steam page]{:target="_blank"}. We're also on [Reddit]{:target="_blank"} and [Twitter]{:target="_blank"}. Give us a follow if you haven't, and we'll keep you up to date on what's new with NewCity!

[Discord]:  http://discord.gg/cz6t4J5
[Steam page]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/1067860/NewCity/
[Reddit]: https://www.reddit.com/r/NewCity
[Twitter]: https://twitter.com/lone_pine_games










