---
layout: post
title:  "Friday Facts #69: Nice"
date:   2021-04-02 00:00:00 -0700
Author: lone-pine
#categories: new-cities friday-facts nice

image: /assets/images/69/69_hero.png
description: nice
---

lone-pine: 

About a month ago, we changed our development process. I assigned Supersoup to manage the release process. This is a role he has taken on with great enthusiasm. We’ve been focused on quality, and that means we need to be more critical about what we include in a release in terms of features and bug-fixes. Supersoup has demonstrated a lot more talent in this role than I have.

Gainos has also been very productive. To give him a break from 3D art and the building designer, he’s been making marketing materials for the upcoming Tourist Update branding push. We’re also working on a way to add more human characters and interaction in the game through a mail system, and he’s been doing some great character portraits and contributing to character development and writing. 

{% include image.html class="caption-bottom"
  url="/assets/images/69/69_mail.png"
  description="This is just a mock-up"
%}

Galahad has also been taking a bigger role, doing QA testing as part of our quality push. You may have seen him around Discord, or on this blog, or you may have noticed him in the ingame about page. Galahad is my father, who is awesome and to whom I owe everything. He’s 69 years old (nice), graduated high school in 1969 (nice), and his favorite game besides NewCity is Sonic the Hedgehog. Sonic premiered in 1991, several years after I was born, and yet I don’t have any memories of playing the game as a kid nor have I ever seen a Sega console among family stuff. WTF Dad? (sus)

(It’s probably for the best though, because I ended up playing SC2K on our Windows 95 machine. You can thank that machine for NewCity.)

Speaking of the Tourist Update branding push, Swordless Mimetown has been working on that. We will have a new trailer (or two?), a revamped store page, and a revamped web presence generally. (We are now in the top search results on Google!) And thanks to him, we are now [available for sale on itch.io!](https://lonepinegames.itch.io/new-city) 

Swordless also helped produce our new logo, which I can present to you now:

{% include image.html class="caption-bottom"
  url="/assets/images/69/69_logo.png"
%}

Our team is running like a well oiled machine, so I just wanted to take this time to celebrate everyone involved. Go team!

---

Questions? Comments? Feedback on the game? Sound off on our [Discord]{:target="_blank"}.

As always, we're incredibly thankful for our great community across the web. We love seeing the hard work and attention to detail you pour into your cities, and it inspires us every day to keep building. Thank you again for your support.

If you want to play the game and haven't got it yet, head over to our [Steam page]{:target="_blank"}. We're also on [Reddit]{:target="_blank"} and [Twitter]{:target="_blank"}. Give us a follow if you haven't, and we'll keep you up to date on what's new with NewCity!

[Discord]:  http://discord.gg/cz6t4J5
[Steam page]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/1067860/NewCity/
[Reddit]: https://www.reddit.com/r/NewCity
[Twitter]: https://twitter.com/lone_pine_games


